# General

General configuration options.

## keyword
```yaml
keyword: boolean|string
```

Enables sparse keyword indexing for this embeddings.

When set to a boolean, this parameter creates a BM25 index for full text search. When set to a string, it expects a [keyword method](../scoring#method).

It also implicitly disables the [defaults](#defaults) setting for vector search.

## sparse
```yaml
sparse: boolean|path
```

Enables sparse vector indexing for this embeddings.

When set to `True`, this parameter creates a sparse vector index using the [default sparse index model](https://huggingface.co/prithivida/Splade_PP_en_v2). When set to a string, it expects a local or Hugging Face model path.

It also implicitly disables the [defaults](#defaults) setting for vector search.

## dense
```yaml
dense: boolean|string
```

Alias for the [vector model path](../vectors/#path). When set to `True`, the [default transformers vector model](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2) is used.

## hybrid
```yaml
hybrid: boolean
```

Enables hybrid (sparse + dense) indexing for this embeddings.

When enabled, this parameter creates a BM25 index for full text search. It has no effect on the [defaults](#defaults) or [path](../vectors/#path) settings.

## defaults
```yaml
defaults: boolean
```

Uses default vector model path when enabled (default setting is True) and `path` is not provided. See [this link](../) for an example.

## indexes
```yaml
indexes: dict
```

Key value pairs defining subindexes for this embeddings. Each key is the index name and the value is the full configuration. This configuration can use any of the available configurations in a standard embeddings instance.

## autoid
```yaml
format: int|uuid function
```

Sets the auto id generation method. When this is not set, an autogenerated numeric sequence is used. This also supports [UUID generation functions](https://docs.python.org/3/library/uuid.html#uuid.uuid1). For example, setting this value to `uuid4` will generate random UUIDs. Setting this to `uuid5` will generate deterministic UUIDs for each input data row.

## columns
```yaml
columns:
    text: name of the text column
    object: name of the object column
```

Sets the `text` and `object` column names. Defaults to `text` and `object` if not provided.

## format
```yaml
format: json|pickle
```

Sets the configuration storage format. Defaults to `json`.
